# Text-editor saturday

Everyone always talks about tweaking their config, but people don't often write
up their process

Well, here are some real live notes from a neovim tweaker

Welcome

## Background: How my tweaking session for started

This tweaking session got started because avante.nvim (AI assistant) wasn't
working and instead of tackling the problem head-on, I spent several hours
avoiding the problem and tweaking my neovim config out.

Pretty standard chill saturday activity. Possibly also a ADHD thing

Below, you will find various things I learned or plugins I messed with, and I'll
also discuss the specifics with avante more below

## New plugin: mini.surround

I'm working on using mini.surround for surround actions more.

For example, in React code I can

- Visual select a JSX block
- Type `<leader>sat` (mnemonic: surround...add...tag)
- Then it pops up what tag to surround it with, and type div (no brackets)
- Result: wraps the JSX with a new div

nvim-surround also has this. Note that it can be tricky because these keymaps
can get a little mixed up with e.g. flash.nvim, which often is configured to
trigger with the "s" key. The mini.surround starts with `<leader>s` though which
AFAIK does not collide

## Learning: Working on visual select actions

I'm trying to work on using more efficient commands for selecting text blocks

Examples:

- vab - "select outer block" to quickly select blocks of code
- viw - select word
- vit - select inside tag e.g. `<div>hello</div>` selects hello
- vat - select "outside" e.g. `<div>hello</div>` selects whole thing
- va( - special command added by mini.ai to select current parens with new
  plugin: https://github.com/echasnovski/mini.ai
- ggVG - select whole file, then y to yank, which (due to unnamedplus) goes to
  system clipboard

But what was I doing before this?

I would go into visual mode (V), and use arrow key or ctrl+d/u (page down/up) to
visual-select blocks of code...not super efficient! Or for word select I'd use
"bve" (go back word...then enter visual mode...then go forward word) instead of
"viw"...works but less idiomatic

## Learning: Disabling arrow keys

Adding this block from kickstart.nvim is very effective at forcing you to stop
using arrow keys. After doing this, mentally for me at least, it really forces
you to want to use more efficient keymaps, not just "sub out" arrow keys for
hjkl...

```lua
-- TIP: Disable arrow keys in normal mode
vim.keymap.set('n', '<left>', '<cmd>echo "Use h to move!!"<CR>')
vim.keymap.set('n', '<right>', '<cmd>echo "Use l to move!!"<CR>')
vim.keymap.set('n', '<up>', '<cmd>echo "Use k to move!!"<CR>')
vim.keymap.set('n', '<down>', '<cmd>echo "Use j to move!!"<CR>')
```

## Learning: Snacks picker

There are so many possible keymaps for snacks picker, especially if you copy the
entirety of the "Usage" keymaps like I done did
https://github.com/folke/snacks.nvim?tab=readme-ov-file#-usage

To help, you can search keymaps with `<leader>sk`.

I also found search current file (or buffer) `<leader>sb` (e.g. Instead of just
/ to search your current file, can get a telescope-like picker)

Also `<leader><leader>` (space space) for "smart search files". I previously
used the `<leader>ff` for just "find files"

## Troubles: avante.nvim debacle

As mentioned previously, this is really what spurred me into my text-editor
saturday meandering.

I am new to using AI in my workflow but I had somewhat of a nice setup with a
avante.nvim. I paid $20 of anthropic bucks and it has done some pretty cool
stuff for me. I like doing things like "extract this block to a new function",
simple things like that.

Unfortunately, at some point in time, the avante.nvim plugin started changing to
do "tool usage".

As context, previously avante.nvim would generate simple diffs in the 'chat
sidebar', and I'd accept them with "A" in the sidebar then accept all with "ca"
in the main area...vibe coding.

However, at some point around the release of claude 3.7, the AI became equipped
to sort of "run tools". I tried using the disable_tools option of avante.nvim
but it still runs them

I tried to look into it a bit more and I found `<leader>ae` (avante edit) can
make much more straightforward edits to a selected block of code, but the
`<leader>aa` ask mode that triggers the chat box is still more flexible.
Unfortunately, the ask mode ends up running tools and going crazy

I also get lots of errors like "too many tokens" even when requests are small,
going into a infinite loop type thing with the tools re-running, diffs not
applying, etc. At the end of the day, I found someone else who was hitting some
of the same bugs as me

https://github.com/yetone/avante.nvim/issues/1981
https://github.com/yetone/avante.nvim/issues/1935

I saw in the docs there are also two different "planning modes": agentic and
legacy. I have not yet tried legacy, but maybe it is a bit simpler and perhaps
legacy behavior...

## Bugfix: Getting neovim nightly with bash alias

I have a nice alias (see below) for getting the latest neovim nightly, but I
realized that I had a older version of neovim nightly in /usr/local/bin/nvim
that was prioritized with my ~/.local/bin/nvim.

I believe it was from a sudo make install of neovim github, but there was no
sudo make uninstall AFAIK, so I just ran rm -rf /usr/local/bin/neovim.

Now I can run my alias `upneo` and update to nightly

```
alias upneo="cd ~/src/neovim/; git pull; rm -rf build; rm -rf .deps/; make CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo CMAKE_EXTRA_FLAGS="-DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$HOME/.local"; make install; cd -"
```

I'm not sure if rm -rf .deps is needed but once I had trouble with a dep not
able to update properly without it. This installs to e.g. ~/.local/bin/nvim

I previously would get the appimage but the 'containerization' of neovim but it
behaved funny, and the brew install --HEAD neovim also did...forget exact
context

## Learning: New key shortcuts

- `<leader>pc` for copying current filename to clipboard

```lua
-- Copy path to clipboard
vim.keymap.set('n', '<leader>pc', function()
  local filepath = vim.fn.expand '%'
  vim.fn.setreg('+', filepath)
end, {
  noremap = true,
  silent = true,
  desc = 'Copy path to clipboard',
})
```

## New plugin: Pretty-ts-errors

Trying to use pretty-ts-errors.nvim
https://github.com/youyoumu/pretty-ts-errors.nvim haven't got to work but seems
nice :)

## New plugin: Better-escape

I found https://github.com/max397574/better-escape.nvim which allows you to
quickly hit jj to go from insert mode to normal, this plugin makes it so that
the keymap allows you to see the keys quickly rather than see a delay

I am also gonna try to use the Neovim built-in shortcut Ctrl+[ instead of ESC

Specifically I use the Ctrl on the right side of my keyboard, and so I use my
right thumb to press right-ctrl and my pointer to hit the [

I also made a new keyboard shortcuts that "save and exit insert mode"

```lua
vim.keymap.set('i', '<C-l>', '<C-o>:w<CR><Esc>', {
  desc = 'Save file and exit insert mode',
})
```

I have seen in mini.basics that `<C-s>` (Ctrl+s) does a similar thing, but I am
trying to get right-hand key shortcuts, which `<C-l> `does allow to avoid
left-hand RSI

## New plugin: Themery

I found themery for toggling between color schemes
https://github.com/zaldih/themery.nvim

I downloaded a bunch of themes like onedark, kanagawa, tokyonight, rose-pine,
and gruvbox.

Once you select, it is persistent across sessions which is nice.

Rose pine is fun, and it really tries to go turbo on the italics. I think it's
made for people with curly-Q fonts. Overall, it's still a bit too 'cold'.

I am trying kanagawa again

## New plugin: ts-autotag.nvim

I randomly stumbled on this 'newer' autotag plugin that claims to be a bit
simpler than nvim-ts-autotag, and doesn't 'override' "<"

https://www.reddit.com/r/neovim/comments/1he0dbw/tsautotagnvim_simpler_alternative_to/

```lua
{
  'tronikelis/ts-autotag.nvim',
  opts = {},
  event = 'VeryLazy',
}
```

## New plugin: mini.pairs

Starting to try to see the mini way, I substituted nvim-autopair with mini.pairs

```lua
{
  'echasnovski/mini.pairs',
  version = false,
  opts = {}
},
```

works fine AFAIK!

## Blink.cmp wishlist request - "import type" and file extension

I wish the auto-import of dependencies from blink.cmp in typescript would import
"as type" e.g.

Currently, an auto-import of e.g. IThing does

```typescript
import { IThing } from "./file";
```

But I would like "import type" and the file extension added (I have
tsconfig.json's allowImportingTsExtensions:true for importing ts files)

```typescript
import type { IThing } from "./file.ts";
```

# Feedback

I often feel like my way of neovimming is pretty weird so feedback welcome. My
config is here and is largely kickstart.nvim based
https://github.com/cmdcolin/mysetup.nvim/blob/master/init.lua

If you got any tips let me know!
